If you have programming experience with some other programming languages, then you might notice approach
of specifying import statements or references to other files directly in a file. So you could say my
tooltip here actually extends the component, so this tooltip.js file definitely needs access to the
component.js file,
this is a dependency we have. Now we fix or we implement this dependency currently by ensuring the order,
for example if I would switch tooltip and component, this would break because tooltip would try to use
component before component is defined.
So we have a dependency here,
project item for example uses the tooltip class, though only at runtime when this code executes,
so we might be able to mess up the order here and still get away with it,
nonetheless here, we also have a dependency.
So it would be nice if we could say, at the top of the tooltip.js file for example, this file depends
on component and then we could remove this component import here and tooltip would automatically import
component when it needs it,
so when tooltip.js runs basically and that can be done with Javascript modules. So to show that, let
me comment out this component import and therefore of course the tooltip.js file breaks as you learned.
So now let's see how Javascript modules help us with that.
We can go to the component and there, we can add a special keyword that makes it clear that we're exporting
this so that this class should be available outside of this file because by default and that's an important
rule,
as soon as we switch to modules which we haven't done yet but as soon as we do so, we will have locked
files. Currently where we import everything with normal import statements here,
when I assign a class like this, when I declare it here, it gets added to the global object.
So it's globally available and every other file can use it, as soon as we switch to modules,
this will change and then every file will be locked down, its content will not be added to this global
object,
it will not be globally available, every file will get its own scope instead.
So how do we switch to modules then and which keyword
do we have to add here?
The keyword is the export keyword.
This is a keyword built into Javascript which signals to Javascript that inside of a module, I want to
make this class here available to other files as well. As I just said, normally that's not the case, with
export
we can make it available.
Now we need to switch to modules and for this, we go to our script here, to our root script which we
always will need to import here because there is at least one script which we have to import into HTML
file because whilst scripts will be able to point at each other, we need one starting point and
to that starting point script, to the script tag we add type and set this to module, so type module needs
to be added here.
This is understood by the browser and tells the browser that
now this script and all scripts referenced by this script,
currently there are none, soon there will be more, will use modules. So now if save this,
this alone won't do much, if I now reload,
we got even more errors and this is actually an important error which we'll need to fix.